# Migration to 13.x

This guide describes the migration to React Native Testing Library version 13 from version 12.x.

Overall, the v13 release is relatively small, focusing on removing deprecated queries and improving the developer experience.

## Breaking changes

### Supported React and React Native versions

This version supports only React 18+ and corresponding React Native versions (0.71+). If you use React 16 or 17, please use the latest of v12 versions.

Note: currently, stable React Native is unavailable for React 19, which is still in the RC phase, so we test against React Native nightly builds.

### Concurrent rendering by default

This version introduces concurrent rendering by default. This change should not affect regular tests, but it might affect your tests if you use React Suspense or similar.

You can revert to legacy rendering by passing `concurrentRoot: false` to [render](/react-native-testing-library/docs/api/render.md#concurrent-root) or [configure](/react-native-testing-library/docs/api/misc/config.md#concurrent-root) methods.

Note: in React 19, concurrent rendering is the only supported rendering mode.

### Extend Jest matchers by default

You can remove `import '@testing-library/react-native/extend-expect'` imports, as now Jest matchers are extended by default when you import anything from `@testing-library/react-native`.

You can avoid the automatic extending of Jest matchers by importing `@testing-library/react-native/pure` instead.

```tsx title=jest-setup.ts
// Remove this:
import '@testing-library/react-native/extend-expect';
```

### Removed deprecated `*ByAccessibilityState` queries

We have removed this deprecated query as it is typically too general to give meaningful results. Use one of the following options:

- [\*ByRole](#by-role) query with relevant state options: `disabled`, `selected`, `checked`, `expanded` and `busy`
- use built-in Jest matchers to check the state of element found using some other query:
  - enabled state: [toBeEnabled() / toBeDisabled()](/react-native-testing-library/docs/api/jest-matchers.md#tobeenabled)
  - checked state: [toBeChecked() / toBePartiallyChecked()](/react-native-testing-library/docs/api/jest-matchers.md#tobechecked)
  - selected state: [toBeSelected()](/react-native-testing-library/docs/api/jest-matchers.md#tobeselected)
  - expanded state: [toBeExpanded() / toBeCollapsed()](/react-native-testing-library/docs/api/jest-matchers.md#tobeexpanded)
  - busy state: [toBeBusy()](/react-native-testing-library/docs/api/jest-matchers.md#tobebusy)

```ts
// Replace this:
const view = screen.getByAccessibilityState({ disabled: true });

// with this (getByRole query):
const view = screen.getByRole('<proper role here>', { disabled: true });

// or this (Jest matcher):
const view = screen.getBy*(...); // Find the element using any query: *ByRole, *ByText, *ByTestId
expect(view).toBeDisabled(); // Assert its accessibility state
```

### Removed deprecated `*ByAccessibilityValue` queries

We have removed this deprecated query as it is typically too general to give meaningful results. Use one of the following options:

- [toHaveAccessibilityValue()](/react-native-testing-library/docs/api/jest-matchers.md#tohaveaccessibilityvalue) Jest matcher to check the state of element found using some other query
- [\*ByRole](#by-role) query with `value` option

```ts
// Replace this:
const view = screen.getByAccessibilityValue({ now: 50, min: 0, max: 50 });

// with this (getByRole query):
const view = screen.getByRole('<proper role here>', { value: { now: 50, min: 0, max: 50 } });

// or this (Jest matcher):
const view = screen.getBy*(...); // Find the element using any query: *ByRole, *ByText, *ByTestId
expect(view).toHaveAccessibilityValue({ now: 50, min: 0, max: 50 }); // Assert its accessibility value
```

### Removed Jest preset

We have removed RNTL Jest preset, so you should change you `jest.config.js` accordingly.

Replace:

```ts title=jest.config.js
// replace this:
preset: '@testing-library/react-native';

// with this:
preset: 'react-native';
```

### Removed `debug.shallow`

We didn't support shallow rendering for the time being. Now, we are removing the last remains of it: `debug.shallow()`. If you are interested in shallow rendering see [here](/react-native-testing-library/docs/migration/previous/v2.md#removed-global-shallow-function).

### Changes to accessibility label calculation

Explicit labels:

- `accessiblityLabelledBy`
- `accessiblityLabel`
- `aria-labelledby`
- `aria-label`

now take strict priority over implicit labels derived from the element's text content.

## Other changes

### Removed host component names autodetection

This change should not break any tests, it should also make RNTL tests run 10-20% faster.

### Use React implementation of `act` instead of React Test Renderer one

This change should not break any tests.

### Updated `flushMicroTasks` internal method

This change should not break any tests.

## Full Changelog

[https://github.com/callstack/react-native-testing-library/compare/v12.8.1...v13.0.0](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-testing-library/compare/v12.8.1...v13.0.0)
